---
title: Leave
permalink: /:path/:basename/
---

## Holiday

W﻿e offer 25 days of annual leave plus bank holidays each   calendar year. If you are working part-time or on a fixed-term contract with us, the amount of holiday you are entitled to will be pro-rated. 

The holiday year at dxw runs between 1st January and 31st December, and you are able to carry over up 5 days of unused leave to the following year, if desired. 

### B﻿ooking holiday

1. Discuss the dates with your team and delivery lead

   This gives them a chance to manage any impact it might have on the wider team
   and the project.

2. Request the holiday through BreatheHR

   We use BreatheHR to track who's off and when, so we can plan for it. Your
   line manager can then see and approve your request.

3. Add your holiday to your Google calendar

   If someone is trying to find out where you are, or when you're available, the
   first thing they'll check is your calendar.

   When you are on a client project, you may also need to add your holiday to a
   shared or team calendar. Check with your delivery lead.

Your line manager will normally approve requests that are for 10 days or less
and made at least 4 weeks in advance. Anything longer or requested with less
notice will need to be managed to understand its impact on client, team or
personal work.

When your planned leave has been approved, it will be automatically added to
Productive. Each member of our delivery team uses the tool to record the days
they work on client projects on a weekly basis.

There is more information about dxw's holiday arrangements in your contract of
employment.

## TOIL (Time off in lieu)

Where possible we try to keep a sustainable pace of work and avoid working
outside normal hours; occasionally this might not be possible.

### How TOIL is calculated

TOIL (time off in lieu) is awarded when you work over and above your contracted
working hours continuously for a period of time or when you attend/travel to an
event outside of your contracted working hours. TOIL should be agreed with your
delivery lead or line manager ahead of doing the extra work.

We encourage you to use your TOIL within the two weeks of extra work or event
attended as it's meant to be for resting and making up for working at a
sustainable pace. We know this may not be feasible in every case so please speak
to your Line Manager or a member of the HR team if you have any questions.

There are two options of how to use your TOIL, you can calculate the amount of
hours you have accrued (i.e. half a day) and take it off at once or take a couple
of hours a day spread over a period of time. Planning when you’ll take TOIL is
important, particularly if you’re working on a billable project so please speak
to your Delivery Lead before doing any overtime and arrange when you’ll be able
to take the time back.

### How to request TOIL

Using BreatheHR similar to the way that you request holiday, there is a TOIL
drop down, please write a note as to why you are requesting the leave and this
will be approved by a member of the HR team. Please note this will not deduct
from your holiday allowance shown on your BreatheHR dashboard.

## Compassionate leave

If you need to take compassionate leave, let your line manager and a member of
the HR team know, so we can support you in the right way. If you are on a
project, we can then work with your delivery lead to manage the impact on the
team.

Compassionate leave is likely to affect many of us at some time or other, in
many different ways. Typically compassionate leave covers things like
bereavement or the sudden illness of close relatives and friends. But we
understand that loss can manifest itself in other forms which can affect your
wellbeing.

This policy aims to set some guidance for line managers while also allowing
reasonable flexibility to reflect different circumstances.

In the first instance, line managers can allow up to 3 days of paid
compassionate leave. They should consult their Director for approval if they
think further paid leave may be appropriate in the circumstances.

Our automatic parental bereavement entitlement is 2 weeks of paid leave, as set
out by
[ACAS](https://www.acas.org.uk/time-off-for-bereavement/parental-bereavement-leave-pay).

There is the option for additional time off to be taken using annual or unpaid
leave. This should be agreed between the line manager and Director, in
consultation with HR. We can also provide support for people returning to work
in line with our existing policies.

To record compassionate leave in BreatheHR, choose Other as the Type of Leave,
and choose Compassionate as the Reason.

## Jury duty leave

Jury duty leave is generally paid for each day (or part thereof) that you are
required to attend Court -

- if you are required to complete Jury Service dxw will pay your normal salary
  less £64.95 per day. Once you have completed your Jury Service you are able to
  claim £64.95 towards your loss of earnings, and any care or childcare outside
  of your usual arrangements
  [here](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/687809/certificate-of-loss-eng.pdf)
- dxw will re-consider the payment amount if an individual is on a case that
  exceeds 4 weeks. This amount will be reviewed by Directors and a decision will
  be made with the individual

Let your line manager or HR manager know as soon as you are able that you have
been requested for Jury Service with a copy of your jury summons.