---
title: Sickness policy 
permalink: /:path/:basename/
---

This policy covers both short and longer term sickness absences. Our aim is to
look after the health and wellbeing of all dxw staff and the needs of the
company.

## Communication of sickness

If you’re sick, you must let your line manager and a member of the HR team know
by 10:00am or as soon as you reasonably can after that. This can be done via
email, directly on Slack, phone call or text. Line managers will record and
monitor sickness for individuals within their teams.

If you are unwell and know that you are going to be off for a period of time, or
have been signed off by your GP until a certain date, you don’t need to update
your line manager daily. Let them know when you will be checking in again so
they know when to expect to hear from you.

When you return to work, you must check your sickness has been correctly
recorded in BreatheHR, update it if necessary and mark yourself as returned to
work. Your line manager will then review and close the sick leave. If you're
sick for more than 28 calendar days in a row, you'll also need to provide a
doctor's note.

## Absence meetings

Your line manager should check-in with you on a regular basis about your
wellbeing, and catch up with you after any sickness absence to see how you are.
If you're sick for more than 7 working days over a rolling 12 month period, your
line manager will invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your health. Where
appropriate, we’ll talk about how we can support your return to work and any
temporary or permanent adjustments which might help improve your wellbeing and
support you to need fewer absences. We might also agree an action plan and / or
a review period. Where we think it would be helpful, we’ll seek advice via an
Occupational Health advisor.

If you have a long term health condition and would like to discuss reasonable
adjustments and ways of working that will help, we welcome a conversation at any
point. The sooner we know, the sooner we can support you.

